Major ship collision in UK waters sparks fears of toxic chemical leak - New Scientist
--Next News Article--
https://news.google.com/rss/articles/CBMitgFBVV95cUxQbU1NZmZoZ0dhaUM1Y183aXZTQUdXRzMta3ZuMHVSYXhUdk81aERyWWtNbEdFLXVvQ0J1bl80U3hsWXhac0lfQkZ1cHlvUExyTWdWeVBQOEZtaEtRTnpjN2FfV25NbU93UF9sQjJTblVCVlBRMExtaWQtTEhEX2FLM0VZNFNfRUxaRXBlM3UxX1lLSUhoMDlZekM2R3hQUTMyUTZfRE9FQVpsNjBLNU53VTlqdTlTUQ?oc=5

Advertisement
Sign in
Search the website
Light
Events
Tours
Shop
Courses
Jobs
News
Features
Newsletters
Podcasts
Video
Comment
Culture
Crosswords
|
This week's magazine
Health
Space
Physics
Technology
Environment
Mind
Humans
Life
Mathematics
Chemistry
Earth
Society
Subscribe now
Environment
Major ship collision in UK waters sparks fears of toxic chemical leak
A cargo ship carrying sodium cyanide collided with a tanker transporting jet fuel – scientists are warning of potentially severe environmental impacts
By Madeleine Cuff
10 March 2025
Advertisement
We and our partners process, store and/or access information on a device.
We and our partners process, store and/or access data such as IP address, unique ID and browsing data to display personalised advertising and content, advertising and content measurement audience research and services development. To collect this data, we use cookies or similar tracking technologies ('Cookies'). We and our partners usually rely on your consent for such processing, but in some cases, we may rely on legitimate interest.
Click 'Got it' if you are happy for us and our partners to collect and use this data for the purposes set out above. Alternatively, click 'Manage Settings' to learn more about how we and our partners use this data as well as how you can reject or change our use of Cookies or otherwise opt out of our processing of your data.
You can control how your data is used, view our 1199 partners and view more info at any time via the Cookie Settings link in our Privacy Policy. Your preferences will apply to this website only.
Manage SettingsGot it

--Next News Article--
https://news.google.com/rss/articles/CBMijwFBVV95cUxQMG1jS0owRVhoaXFyZFJ6ekY3Rl9QV2lfTGVGOXdNWUUzQ1NySWptUXhyUG5PZ2NvRVdIRF9fazRkcDhBNEdGUm13b0FBbDhUbXA1d3luc3EzckR6LU5CRGhiY2x0eVliYzJfMFZRUzVlQWNWdzVhc3M0ckFoRnJQbE1tVTVMVV8tQV82ZWdfaw?oc=5

SKIP TO CONTENT
SKIP TO SITE INDEX
SECTION NAVIGATION
SEARCH
EUROPE
LOG IN
ADVERTISEMENT
SKIP ADVERTISEMENT
Oil Tanker and Container Ship Collide in the North Sea
A container ship hit a stationary U.S.-flagged oil tanker on Monday, forcing the crews to abandon ship and raising fears about a leak of jet fuel.
Listen to this article · 5:05 min Learn more
Share full article
Video
Multiple explosions were reported and jet fuel leaked after a container ship collided with an oil tanker.
Credit
Credit...
Getty Images
By Megan Specia
Reporting from London.
March 10, 2025
Updated 3:56 p.m. ET
A container ship collided with a U.S.-flagged oil tanker off the northeastern coast of England on Monday, causing multiple explosions and forcing the crews of both ships to abandon their vessels. One person was hospitalized, according to a local lawmaker.
The Stena Immaculate, a 600-foot long oil tanker, was anchored in the North Sea when it was struck by a container ship called the Solong, according to Crowley, the Florida-based company that manages the tanker.
The collision caused a cargo tank containing jet fuel to be ruptured and “fuel was reported released,” the company said in a statement. “The Stena Immaculate crew abandoned the vessel following multiple explosions onboard,” it said, adding that “all Crowley mariners are safe and fully accounted for.”
Tracking data from Marine Traffic, a website that monitors the movement of vessels, showed that the Stena Immaculate was anchored just off the coast of the mouth of the River Humber, near Hull, when it was hit, while the Solong, sailing under the Portuguese flag, was on its way from Scotland to the Netherlands.
Reederei Koepping, a German shipping company that owns the Solong, did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
The incident happened during daylight hours, raising questions about how the two ships had collided.
Graham Stuart, a local lawmaker, said in a video statement that one person had been hospitalized but said he believed that the remaining crew members from both vessels were safe.
He noted that if the jet fuel leak was able to escape from the tanker in large quantities, “it could have a devastating environmental impact.”
“I’m calling for a unified command structure to be brought in to make sure there is proper accountability for both the human and ecological impacts of this collision,” he added.
Initial images shared by the BBC showed fire and thick black smoke rising from the ships, and local authorities said that in the immediate aftermath, a number of people had been taken to area hospitals.
The British coast guard said it was “coordinating the emergency response to reports of a collision between a tanker and cargo vessel off the coast of East Yorkshire,” and that an alarm was first raised at 9:48 a.m. local time.
Rescue helicopters and lifeboats were deployed, as well as vessels with “firefighting capability,” the coast guard said in a statement.
The coast guard added that it was assessing “the likely counter pollution response required.”
Martyn Boyers, the chief executive of the port of Grimsby East, spoke to Sky News, a British news channel, and said that the area had been foggy on Monday morning, which may have contributed to visibility issues.
“This morning, it’s been very foggy, and the fog has never lifted,” he added.
Crowley, a U.S.-based logistics, marine and energy company, serves both government and commercial contracts. The tanker had been previously approved to be chartered on a short-term basis to serve U.S. government operations, but it was unclear if it was currently undergoing that or commercial work. The Solong was carrying mixed cargo that included alcohol and 15 containers of sodium cyanide, according to Lloyd’s List intelligence, which provides shipping insights. The size of those containers was not immediately clear.
Sodium cyanide, a white powder, is a highly toxic material that can be a deadly poison but also has variety of industrial uses, including in mining, metal extraction and chemical manufacturing.
A spokesman for the East Midlands Ambulance Service, which covers the local area, said that 36 patients were assessed at the Grimsby port by its ambulance crews and that “none required transporting to hospital.”
Jonathan Roach, a container shipping analyst at Braemar, a London ship broker, said that the Solong was a relatively small ship — 140 meters, or around 460 feet long — doing short runs from Rotterdam down Britain’s east coast in the North Sea.
The Stena Immaculate was in a well-known anchorage off Hull, and in a situation like that, the rule of the sea is “the vessel not at anchor has to give way,” he said, because it is much more difficult for the anchored ship to avoid a collision. He noted that the area was relatively busy with a variety of ships, including ferries, adding, “We have to be thankful no one was killed.”
Experts who are looking at the potential environmental impact of the incident noted that it was too early to fully understand the fallout from the crash.
David Slater, an honorary professor in the School of Engineering at Cardiff University, said that if jet fuel had leaked from the Stena Immaculate, that made it more likely that the crash site would catch on fire.
“The upside is it’s less of an environmental problem than black crude oil,” he said in a statement. “In some cases like this, it’s better to leave it to burn, but that depends on how much fuel is leaking.”
Stanley Reed contributed reporting.
Megan Specia reports on Britain, Ireland and the Ukraine war for The Times. She is based in London. More about Megan Specia
Share full article
ADVERTISEMENT
SKIP ADVERTISEMENT
Site Index
Site Information Navigation
© 2025 The New York Times Company
NYTCoContact UsAccessibilityWork with usAdvertiseT Brand StudioYour Ad ChoicesPrivacy PolicyTerms of ServiceTerms of SaleSite MapHelpSubscriptionsManage Privacy Preferences


--Next News Article--
https://news.google.com/rss/articles/CBMie0FVX3lxTE43bFNlMGwyVzM1cGFOa2VFSEdvTDR1czNGX1ZKaGhwX0hpc0VnRmtCWURZd1hEOFliY1VMLUxtc1FYc1Z4RXNCdUFyQnZoWTdXX2F5S1RKSTJhUnF2VVdzTFBKTEZzc04zcGU3RVYtdndxVFgtbUNSWUZZRQ?oc=5

guce
We, Yahoo, are part of the
Yahoo family of brands.
When you use our sites and apps, we use
cookies to:
provide our sites and apps to you
authenticate users, apply security measures, and prevent spam and abuse, and
measure your use of our sites and apps
If you click 'Accept all', we and our partners, including 238 who are part of the IAB Transparency & Consent Framework, will also store and/or access information on a device (in other words, use cookies) and use precise geolocation data and other personal data such as IP address and browsing and search data, for personalised advertising and content, advertising and content measurement and audience research and services development.
If you do not want us and our partners to use cookies and personal data for these additional purposes, click 'Reject all'.
If you would like to customise your choices, click 'Manage privacy settings'.
You can withdraw your consent or change your choices at any time by clicking on the 'Privacy & cookie settings' or 'Privacy dashboard' links on our sites and apps. Find out more about how we use your personal data in our privacy policy and cookie policy.
Accept all Reject all Manage privacy settings
